Add documentation for OAuth2 generic authenticator (#3176)
wso2/docs-is: en/docs/references/extend/federation/write-a-custom-oauth2-federated-authenticator.md

# Write a Custom OAuth2 Federated Authenticator

A custom OAuth2 authenticator can be written to authenticate a user with an external system. The external system can be

> any Identity provider supporting OAuth2 including Facebook, Kakao, Naver etc. You can use the OAuth2GenericAuthenticator

Reviewer: IMO, it would be great if the text "OAuth2GenericAuthenticator" is a hyperlink that points to the class location in the GH repo.

> any Identity provider supporting OAuth2 including Facebook, Kakao, Naver etc. You can use the OAuth2GenericAuthenticator

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
any Identity provider supporting OAuth2 including Facebook, Kakao, Naver, etc. You can use the `OAuth2GenericAuthenticator`
```

available in WSO2 Identity Server to create custom OAuth2 authenticators.

> ## Steps to write a custom OAuth2 authenticator

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Write a custom OAuth2 federated authenticator
```

> 1. First create a maven project for the custom OAuth2 authenticator. Refer to
>    the [pom.xml](https://github.com/wso2/samples-is/blob/master/authenticators/components/org.wso2.carbon.identity.sample.oauth2.federated.authenticator/pom.xml)
>    file used for the Custom authenticator.
> 2. Refer
>    the [service component class](https://github.com/wso2/samples-is/blob/master/authenticators/components/org.wso2.carbon.identity.sample.oauth2.federated.authenticator/src/main/java/org/wso2/carbon/identity/sample/oauth2/federated/authenticator/internal/OAuth2CustomAuthenticatorServiceComponent.java)
>    as well since the authenticator is written as an OSGI service to deploy in WSO2 Identity Server and register it as an
>    authenticator

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Create a maven project for the custom OAuth2 authenticator. Refer to the following files:

> - the [pom.xml](https://github.com/wso2/samples-is/blob/master/authenticators/components/org.wso2.carbon.identity.sample.oauth2.federated.authenticator/pom.xml) file used for the Custom authenticator.
> - The [service component class](https://github.com/wso2/samples-is/blob/master/authenticators/components/org.wso2.carbon.identity.sample.oauth2.federated.authenticator/src/main/java/org/wso2/carbon/identity/sample/oauth2/federated/authenticator/internal/OAuth2CustomAuthenticatorServiceComponent.java) as well since the authenticator is written as an OSGI service to deploy in WSO2 Identity Server and register it as an authenticator
```

> 3. The custom authenticator should be written by extending the OAuth2GenericAuthenticator class.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. The custom authenticator should be written by extending the `OAuth2GenericAuthenticator` class.
```

> 4. You can find a [Kakao custom authenticator](https://github.com/wso2-extensions/identity-outbound-auth-kakao) here for

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. You can find a [Kakao custom authenticator](https://github.com/wso2-extensions/identity-outbound-auth-kakao) here for
```

|[protected void processAuthenticationResponse(HttpServletRequest request,HttpServletResponse response, AuthenticationContext context)](https://github.com/wso2-extensions/identity-outbound-auth-oauth2/blob/75745516bb81f3b93b47075da720cd2fbc194217/components/org.wso2.carbon.identity.application.authenticator.oauth2/src/main/java/org.wso2.carbon.identity.application.authenticator.oauth2/Oauth2GenericAuthenticator.java#L116-L145)|Implements the logic of the custom federated authenticator.|
|[protected void buildClaims(AuthenticationContext context, String userInfoString)](https://github.com/wso2-extensions/identity-outbound-auth-oauth2/blob/75745516bb81f3b93b47075da720cd2fbc194217/components/org.wso2.carbon.identity.application.authenticator.oauth2/src/main/java/org.wso2.carbon.identity.application.authenticator.oauth2/Oauth2GenericAuthenticator.java#L147-L183)|Implements the logic for extracting the subject from claims and for other claim mappings.|

---

> ## Deploy the custom federated authenticator in WSO2 IS

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Deploy the custom OAuth2 federated authenticator in WSO2 IS
```

> 
> 1. Once the implementation is done, navigate to the root of your project and run the following command to compile the
>    service.
>     ``` xml
>     mvn clean install
>     ```
> 2. Copy the compiled `jar` file inside `/target` and paste it to the `<IS_HOME>/repository/components/dropins`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To deploy the custom OAuth2 federated authenticator:
1. Open a terminal, navigate to the root of your project, and compile the service by running the following command:
    ``` xml
    mvn clean install
    ```
2. Copy the compiled `jar` file inside `/target` folder and paste it to the `<IS_HOME>/repository/components/dropins`.
```

---

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Configure the Identity Server

This section guides you on how to configure the identity server to use the custom OAuth2 federated authenticator.
```

> ## Configure custom federated authenticator

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Configure custom OAuth2 federated authenticator
```

> ## Configure custom OAuth2 federated authenticator

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Configure custom OAuth2 federated authenticator
```

> 1. To configure the custom authenticator, click the Add button under Identity Providers and add an IDP name to register the new IDP.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. To configure the custom authenticator, initially [register a new identity provider]({{base_path}}/guides/identity-federation/add-idp/).
```

> 2. Click Federated Authenticators and expand `OAuth2 Custom Authenticator Configuration`. Configure it as follows.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Click Federated Authenticators and expand `Custom OAuth2 Authenticator Configuration`. Configure it as follows.
```

> 2. Click Federated Authenticators and expand `Custom OAuth2 Authenticator Configuration`. Configure it as follows.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Expand **Federated Authenticators > Custom OAuth2 Authenticator Configuration** and configure it as follows:
```

    - Select the **Enable** and **Default** check boxes.
    - **Client Id** - The client ID value generated by the external OAuth2 IdP.
    - **Client Secret** - The client secret value generated by the external OAuth2 IdP.
    - **Callback Url** - https://localhost:9443/commonauth

>     - **Authorization Endpoint URL** - https://kauth.kakao.com/oauth/authorize

Reviewer 3: do we need to configure them? These needs to go inside the specific authenticator while deploying sicne these are authenticator specific endpoints

Reviewer 3: Do we have such behavior in Kakao also? Do they need to explicitly configure the endpoint?

    - **User Information Endpoint URL** - https://kapi.kakao.com/v2/user/me

    !!!info

>          Here, the Client Id and Client Secret are the values of Kakao.

Reviewer 4: Don't we need to point here the guidelines to take these values from Kakao?

Author: At a point where writing a custom OAuth2 authenticator, we expect the developer to know the basics of the external OAuth2 IdP. Therefore, we can rephrase this to be more generic with,
`Here, the Client Id and Client Secret are the values generated by the external OAuth2 IdP.`
What do you think?

Author: Changed with https://github.com/wso2/docs-is/pull/3421

         Here, the Client Id and Client Secret are the values of Kakao.

   ![Federated Oauth2 Authenticator]({{base_path}}/assets/img/extend/federated-oauth2-authenticator.png)

---

> ## Configure an application with the custom federated authenticator

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Configure the SP with the custom federated authenticator
```

1. On the WSO2 IS Management Console, go to **Main > Identity > Service Providers > Add**.
2. Enter a Service Provider name and click **Register** to add the new service provider.

> 3. Expand **Inbound Authentication Configuration > OAuth/OpenID Connect Configuration** and click **Configure** 

Reviewer 4: 3. Expand **Inbound Authentication Configuration > OAuth/OpenID Connect Configuration** and click **Configure**.

Author: Fixed with https://github.com/wso2/docs-is/pull/3421

> 1. Start the server and log in to the WSO2 IS Management Console.
> 2. Navigate to `Main > Identity > Service Providers > Add`.
> 3. Add a Service Provider name and optionally, add a description.
> 4. Click `Register`. (Let’s use the playground app and refer this to configure the playground app.
> 5. List the Service Providers and edit the service provider as follows by navigating to the `OAuth/OpenID Configuration` section under `Inbound Authentication Configuration` as explained above.
> 6. Click Configure and add `http://localhost:8080/playground2/oauth2client` as the call back URL. Click Update.
> 7. Navigate to `Local & Outbound Authentication Configuration` and you can find the Authentication Type. Select `Federated Authentication` and select the configured authenticator and update to save the changed configurations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. On the WSO2 IS Management Console, go to `Main > Identity > Service Providers > Add`.
2. Enter a Service Provider name and click **Register** to add the new service provider.
3. Expand **Inbound Authentication Configuration > OAuth/OpenID Connect Configuration** and click **Configure** 4. Enter `http://localhost:8080/playground2/oauth2client` as the **Callback URI**, and click **Update**.
5. Expand to **Local & Outbound Authentication Configuration** and select the configured authenticator from the **Federated Authentication** list.
6. Click **Update** to save the configurations.
```

---

> ## Try out the scenario

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Try it out
```

1. Access the playground app by using [http://localhost:8080/playground2](http://localhost:8080/playground2).
2. This will redirect to the login page of Kakao.

> 3. Enter email and password for Kakao.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Enter the email address and password for Kakao.

You will be successfully logged into the application.
```
